Three exercises with lesser specification overhead (#151)
ferrous-systems/teaching-material: assignments/fizzbuzz-command-line.adoc

Create a new binary project and name it `fizzbuzzcli`.

.Click to see the solution
[%collapsible]
====
[source,bash]
----
cargo new --bin fizzbuzzcli
----
====

=== Step 2

Create a separate function in `main.rs` that does FizzBuzz for a given number passed to it. You can use a previous function/code or write again. The signature of the function is -

[source,rust]
----
fn fizzbuzz(num: u32) -> String
----

.Click to see hints/solutions for this step
[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
fn fizzbuzz(num: u32) -> String {
    if num % 3 == 0 && num % 5 == 0 {
        format!("FizzBuzz")
    } else if num % 3 == 0 {
        format!("Fizz")
    } else if num % 5 == 0 {
        format!("Buzz")
    } else {
        format!("{}", num)
    }
}
----
====

=== Step 3(a)

Using `std::env::args()`, get the commandline arguments and save them in a `Vec<String>`.

.Click to see hints/solutions for this step
[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
// import std::env
use std::env;

fn main() {
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
}
----
====

=== Step 3(b)

Iterator over the argument, calling the `fizzbuzz`. Pay close attention to the first argument in the Vector of args.

Notes:

> * Convert the incoming arg to integer, throw failed integer parsing error if parsing fails for any element but the program should continue until the last element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Parse the incoming arg as an integer, and return an integer parsing error if parsing fails for any element.
* The program should run for all valid args, up to the first invalid one.
```

= Exercise: FizzBuzz Command Line
:source-language: rust

In this exercise we will convert our existing FizzBuzz app to or create a new FizzBizz application to command line application. Our application will take input from command line by the user as a space separated list of numbers.

== Specification

We want to create a simple command line app with the following CLI API -

[source,bash]
----
fizzbuzzcli 1 2 45 234
fizzbuzzcli 22 1 43
----

> You will learn:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will learn to:
```

* Do command line argument parsing and usage in two ways
* Use `std::env` for basic argument parsing
* Add external crates/libraries as dependencies
* Use an external library/crate (https://docs.rs/clap/latest/clap/[clap]) to make our lives easier

== Tasks

=== Step 1

Create a new binary project and name it `fizzbuzzcli`.

.Click to see the solution
[%collapsible]
====
[source,bash]
----
cargo new --bin fizzbuzzcli
----
====

=== Step 2

> Create a separate function in `main.rs` that does FizzBuzz for a given number passed to it. You can use a previous function/code or write again. The signature of the function is -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a separate function in `main.rs` that does FizzBuzz for a given number passed to it. You could copy it from a previous example, but try to write it out again from scratch. The signature of the function is -
```

[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
fn fizzbuzz(num: u32) -> String {
    if num % 3 == 0 && num % 5 == 0 {
        format!("FizzBuzz")
    } else if num % 3 == 0 {
        format!("Fizz")
    } else if num % 5 == 0 {
        format!("Buzz")
    } else {
        format!("{}", num)
    }
}
----
====

=== Step 3(a)

Using `std::env::args()`, get the commandline arguments and save them in a `Vec<String>`.

.Click to see hints/solutions for this step
[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
// import std::env
use std::env;

fn main() {
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
}
----
====

=== Step 3(b)

Iterate over the arguments, calling the `fizzbuzz` function. Pay close attention to the first argument in the Vector of args.

Notes:

* Parse the incoming arg as an integer, and return an integer parsing error if parsing fails for any element.
* The program should run for all valid args, up to the first invalid one.
* Use the `parse()` method on the incoming string. What is the return type of parse?
* Then loop over those args and print the correct string for the value

.Click to see hints/solutions for this step
[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
// import std::env

> use std::env;

Reviewer: This doesn't compile.

Author: once again I have learnt that I cannot copy paste properly.

Author: this makes a lot of sense now. maybe I should change this to standalone programs?

.Click to see hints/solutions for this step
[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
// import std::env
use std::env;

fn main() {
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
}
----
====

=== Step 3(b)

Iterate over the arguments, calling the `fizzbuzz` function. Pay close attention to the first argument in the Vector of args.

Notes:

* Parse the incoming arg as an integer, and return an integer parsing error if parsing fails for any element.
* The program should run for all valid args, up to the first invalid one.
* Use the `parse()` method on the incoming string. What is the return type of parse?
* Then loop over those args and print the correct string for the value

.Click to see hints/solutions for this step
[%collapsible]
====
[source,rust]
----
// import std::env
use std::env;

fn main() {
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
    for arg in args[1..].iter() {
        let num_from_arg = arg.parse::<u32>();
        let res = match num_from_arg {
            Ok(num) => fizzbuzz(num),
            Err(e) => format!("Error {}", e),
        };
        println!("{}", res);
    }

> }

Author: @jonathanpallant  this should compile now. was missing a closing brace.
